---
title: "September, 2019"
poster: "Paul"
---

The current progress is:


**Overall Complete functions:** 85.73 % (2519/2938)

**Overall Complete instructions:** 88.66 % (207804/234383)

For the first time the amount of instructions implement has overtaken the amount of functions implement percentage. Once again a crazy amount of progress has been made this month.


Rather than list what is done its now easier to list what isn't quite done:

DDCheat - 2 functions

ColorfulMeter - 1 function

PoisionGas - 2 functions

Scrab - 1 function

Fleech - 2 functions

NakedSlig - 1  function

Slog - 1 function

PauseMenu - 4 functions

MainMenu - 25 functions

Abe - 1 function

And about 50 misc "engine" functions.


As you can see in terms of raw decompliation there isn't a huge amount left. As mentioned last month its very likely that around 88% functions is now looking like the end of the decompliation step.


The current quality of the build is quite bad as a larger and more serious class of bugs are still outstanding. Some crashes and things like scrabs not being able to damage Abe.

12 bugs have been fixed and 27 have been raised and not fixed this month. However a fair few of these are original game bugs meaning that they exist in the official version too.


Github stats:

 Excluding merges, 5 authors have pushed 123 commits to master and 123 commits to all branches. On master, 93 files have changed and there have been 12,550 additions and 1,584 deletions.


A video showing a visualisation of every commit/change to the code base has also been released here:

 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiPDcdaktbM


The goal for next motion is to pull together my rapidly demising motivation and try to finish as many as possible of the outstanding objects and fix as many issues as possible.  I don't expect the decompliation step to be finished by next month but I guess we will see ;).

