---
title: "April, 2019"
poster: "Paul"
---

The raw progress for April stands at:

**Overall Complete functions:** 50.15 % (1481/2953)

**Overall Complete instructions:** 46.57 % (110147/236504)


As you can see in terms of function count the halfway mark has been crossed :).


The major changes this month are that Mudokons are partly working due to most of their functions being implemented. And the bird portal object is also mostly completed too. The main Mudokon AI function is one of the top 10 biggest function in the entire game! Strangely the mine car update function is also up there with the biggest sized functions.


Other objects that have been progressed during April:


- Door blocker

- Slap lock

- Dove

- Mudokon

- Bird portal

- Abe/hero


Next month the goal is to attempt to get the slap lock fully working in standalone and progress the mudokon object further to completion.

Obligatory bug/reversing test videos:

 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wx2IfV7u6qU

 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cl8W8tVfsAM

Next month the goal is simply to keep on decompling and reversing as many game objects as possible. I've yet to decide if its worth the upfront effort of "stubbing" objects such as Scrab/Paramite/Glukkon. The stubbing can make implementation a little faster when I reach that point. But it also doesn't count towards the completed function count.

 Also some interesting trivia - the chant suppressor object with "legs" as seen in Oddysee still exists in Exoddus. However trying to call it crashes because it appears that the motion detector object has been hard coded such that the owner object is either nothing (nullptr) or a Greeter.

I suspect that in Oddysee it was hard coded to be a chant suppressor and was simply replaced with a greeter in Exoddus. At this point its unknown if the resources for this object still exist or not. If they do then it will be possible to restore it at a later point.

