---
title: "February, 2019"
poster: "Paul"
---

The previous months targets of finishing the teleporter (bar its effects) and the water object where achieved.

Progressing the standalone binary to build on Linux went even better than expected and actually now fully builds and runs as a 64 bit executable. In addition support for the standalone binary running on Windows compiled as 64 bit was also implemented.

This now means that the standalone can compile and run on the following platforms:

- Windows 32bit
- Windows 64bit
- Linux 64bit
- OSX 64bit

Note that my support of issues with standalone is near non existent at this point because almost every issue is because of missing/unimplemented functions. Therefore if testing you should only really be reporting issues with the 32 bit dll version. As any bugs found with this will always be an actual issue that needs to be fixed.

Again more progress on the raw reverse engineering was made than I expected, the final stats for the month weighing in at:

**Overall Complete functions:** 41.24 % (1218/2953)

**Overall Complete instructions:** 36.90 % (87293/236504)

Once 40% was hit I almost posted a small public update video on youtube which you can checkout here: 

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g31MLNUdrr4>

If you haven't already seen it. Quite a few old long standing bugs where also fixed as well as any issues found in recently reversed objects.

The goal for this month is to just progress through reversing as many objects as possible. So for instances the falling items, lighting effects or anything else that seems small and simple enough to burn through in the shortest amount of time.
