---
title: "November, 2020"
poster: "Nemin"
---

Current AO progress is:

**Overall Complete functions:** ~99% (See below)

**Overall Complete instructions:** ~99%

Hello all,

We are nearing the endgame. The reversing project is one step from releasing a standalone version of
AO's engine and thus providing the same boons as the AE version does. While there are still some
bugs that need to be fixed (for instance the audio currently completely refuses to work and the
input has problems too), you can nonetheless expect AO to drop in the upcoming months.

With these happy news out of the way, it's time to take a look at this month's "whodunnit." Like
always, you can click on their names to see every single git commit they made along with the code in
these commits. And now strap yourself in, because there are a lot of changes and additions to go over:

### [Paul]
- Implemented the `LiftPoint` and `MusicController` classes.
- Finished implementing the `Bee` `BirdPortal`, `CircularFade`, `DeathGas`, `Demo`, `Gibs`, `Grenade`, `HintFly`, `MotionDetector`, `ParticleBurst`, `PlatformBase`, `PullRingRope`, `Spark` and `ZapLine` classes.
- Finished remaining `Decompress` and `Factory` functions.
- Also implemented the following functions:
  - `BaseBomb::DealDamageRect_417A50()`
  - `DynamicArray::Remove_Item_404520()`
  - `FlameSparks::VRender_432640()`
  - `FlintLockFire::VRender_41B0F0()`
  - `MainMenuTransition::VRender_436610()`
  - `Menu::FMV_Or_Level_Select_Render_47EEA0()`
  - `SaveGame::Kill_Objects_451720()`
  - `SaveGame::Load_459970()`
  - `ScreenShake::VRender_4625E0()`
  - `Shadow::Calculate_Position_462040()`
  - `Shadow::Render_462410()`
  - `SlingMudokon::tsub_470230()`
  - `SlingMudokon::tsub_4707B0()`
  - `String_FormatString_450DC0()`
- Named fields and arrays in the `Input`, `MainMenu`, `SaveGame` and `StringFormatters` classes.
- Deleted a constructor of the `BaseAnimatedWithPhysicsGameObject` class to work around a crash.
- Replaced Travis Continuous Integration with Azure Pipelines/Azure Devops.
- Fix Abe's Exoddus sound regression playing a note every few seconds that shouldn't be there.
- Added missing Hint Fly data.
- Stopped Stockyard stars rendering in standalone.
- Did a whole load of fixes to get standalone to run.

### [D3nwah]
- Implemented the following functions:
  - `AbilityRing::VRender_456340()`
  - `BeeSwarm::VRender_480AC0()`
  - `Blood::VRender_407810()`
 - `DDCheat::DebugOut_495990()`
  - `DDCheat::Misc_409E90()`
  - `DDCheat::ScreenShot_409720()`
  - `DDCheat::sub_498B40()`
  - `DDCheat::Sub_49AD50()`
  - `DDCheat::Teleport_409CE0()`
  - `DDCheat::VUpdate_4098C0()`
  - `DemoPlayback::ctor_4517B0()`
  - `DoorFlame::VUpdate_432440()`
  - `Explosion::DealBlastDamage_459160()`
  - `Input_SaveSettingsIni_44F460()`
  - `Input::Update()`
  - `LCDScreen::VRender_434400()`
  - `LCDScreen::VUpdate_4341B0()`
  - `Menu::ButtonRemap_Render_47F940()`
  - `Menu::Options_Controller_Render_47F430()`
  - `PauseMenu::VRender_44E6F0()`
  - `PauseMenu::VUpdate_44DFB0()`
  - `Rope::VRender_458780()`
  - `ScreenWave::VRender_463130()`
  - `SFX_Play_43AD70()`
  - `SFX_Play_43ADE0()`
  - `SFX_Play_43AE60()`
  - `SFX_Play_43AED0()`
  - `Slog::Sfx_475BD0()`
  - `SND_Init_Ambiance_4765C0()`
  - `SnoozeParticle::VRender_464620()`
  - `Spark::VUpdate_477DB0()`
  - `Start_Slig_sounds_476960()`
  - `ThrowableTotalIndicator::VRender()`
- Fixed issue #897: Lift ropes are borked.
- Fixed issue #706: Can't bind fart/roll input on gamepad.
- Applied style fixes.
- Named fields in the `DDCheat`, `Input` and `SaveGame` classes.
- Deleted unneeded `SaveGame::sub_45A2D0()` function.

### [Mouzedrift]
- Implemented the following functions:
  - `AliveFont::DrawString_41C360()`
  - `AliveFont::MeasureWidth_41C200()`
  - `AliveFont::MeasureWidth_41C2B0()`
  - `AliveFont::SliceText_41C6C0()`
  - `BoomMachine::VIsButtonOn()`
  - `BoomMachine::VHandleButton()`
  - `BoomMachine::VUpdate()`
  - `Bullet::VUpdate()`
  - `Meat::AddToPlatform_438EA0()`
  - `Meat::InTheAir_438720()`
  - `Meat::OnCollision_438D80()`
  - `Meat::VGetCount_439020()`
  - `Meat::VOnTrapDoorOpen_438FD0()`
  - `Meat::VUpdate_438A20()`
  - `Slig::Brain_GetAlertedTurn_46E520()`
  - `SlingMudokon::VUpdate()`
  - `SnoozeParticle::VUpdate_464500()`
- Fixed the following issues:
  - #338: You cant delete a save that has been created in the same session.
  - #339: You cant load a fresh save from the main menu that has been created in the same session.
  - #803: Slig turns around when he shouldn't.
  - #806: Abe starts run jumping too early.
  - #824: Chime Lock ball moves on its own.
  - #841: Slig doesn't move when he should.
  - #898: Paramite thinks he's cornered when he isn't.
- Applied style fixes.
- Swapped an integer still used in the `Abe` class for its enumeration counterpart (`1` to `kEventSpeaking_1`).
- Converted integers to enumerations in the `BeeNest`, `BoomMachine`, `Grinder`, `InvisibleEffect`, `MeatSaw`, `RollingBall`, `RollingBallStopper`, `SecurityClaw` and `SecurityOrb` classes.
- Named fields, functions, flags and states in the `Abe`, `BaseGameObject`, `BirdPortal`, `BoomMachine`, `CircularFade`, `Elum`, `Font`, `GrenadeMachineNozzle`, `Grinder`, `Input`, `InvisibleEffect`, `LiftMover`, `MainMenu`, `Mine` and `Mudokon` classes.
- Made it so Abe's Oddysee also used resource IDs.
- Fixed circular fade not being destroyed.
- Fixed broken Foot Switch.
- Fixed a possible crash when loading into screens with Sligs in the `Slig::CreateFromSaveState_4B3B50()` function.
- Fixed a crash in the `Slig::vUpdateAnim_4B1320()` function.
- Fixed Intellisense blowing up.
- Fixed grenade getting stuck in the air.
- Fixed wrong sound being played.
- Fixed Sling Mudokon not waiting before whistling.
- Fixed Sligs trying to shoot Abe behind cover.
- Fixed wrong run jump behaviour.
- Fixed `ParticleBurst` parts looking wrong compared to OG.
- Fixed lift idle bug.

### [LIJI32]
- Fixed rounding errors.
- Improved rendering on high DPI displays.
- Changed SDL keycodes to SDL scancodes so Abe's Exoddus responds to non-QWERTY/Latin keyboard layouts.

### [Pryon]
- Named fields, function arguments and states in the `BaseBomb`, `DeathFadeout`, `DemoPlayback`, `Dove`, `Input` and `MainMenuController` classes.
- Fixed issue #843: Game crashes when you enter the boardroom screen with the gas timer.
- Fixed issue #826: Screen doesn't change when you hop into a different screen with a certain distance.
- Fixed keyboard rebinding bug introduced in commit `e8d338d`.

### [THEONLYDarkShadow]
- Named almost every single yet unamed field, flag, structure and function in the `Abe` class.
- Named a couple of unnamed arguments in the `Alarm::ctor_4091F0()` function.
- Fixed alignment of the switch-case statement in the `Alarm::vUpdate_409460()`.
- Named an object type in the `BaseGameObject` class.
- Named fields and flags in the `BaseAliveGameObject` class.
- Fixed alignment of switch-case statements in the `BaseAliveGameObject` class.
- Named states in the `GameEnderController` class.
- Named some fields in the `LaughingGas` class.
- Named a couple of fields in the `MusicController` class.
- Fixed Abe's Oddysee standalone not running on GNU + Linux systems.

### [UltraStars3000]
- Fixed issue #847: Specific ring Mudokon shouldn't be asking for a password.
- Did a float cast fix in the `DebugHelpers::Vec2Distance()` function.

I'd like to thank THEONLYDarkShadow, for lending me a huge helping hand with collecting these
changes out!

As the reversing part of the project nears its completion, you can see that the team is making very
rapid progress. If you would like to help us out, you can do so either financially ([Patreon] or
[PayPal]) or by [joining the server] and contributing code or playtesting.

Thanks for reading, see you next month!

[Patreon]: https://www.patreon.com/alive
[PayPal]: https://paypal.me/paulsapps
[joining the server]: https://discord.gg/khs6KKS

[Paul]: https://github.com/AliveTeam/alive_reversing/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed+author%3Apaulsapps+created%3A2020-11-01..2020-12-01
[D3nwah]: https://github.com/AliveTeam/alive_reversing/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed+created%3A2020-11-01..2020-12-01+author%3Ad3nwah
[Mouzedrift]: https://github.com/AliveTeam/alive_reversing/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed+created%3A2020-11-01..2020-12-01+author%3Amouzedrift
[LIJI32]: https://github.com/AliveTeam/alive_reversing/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed+created%3A2020-11-01..2020-12-01+author%3ALIJI32
[Pryon]: https://github.com/AliveTeam/alive_reversing/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed+created%3A2020-11-01..2020-12-01+author%3APryon
[THEONLYDarkShadow]: https://github.com/AliveTeam/alive_reversing/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed+created%3A2020-11-01..2020-12-01+author%3ATHEONLYDarkShadow
[UltraStars3000]: https://github.com/AliveTeam/alive_reversing/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed+created%3A2020-11-01..2020-12-01+author%3AUltraStars3000
