---
title: "October, 2020"
poster: Nemin
---

Current AO progress is:

**Overall Complete functions:** 80.63% (1744/2163)

**Overall Complete instructions:** 79.16% (134600/170028)

Hello all,

This month has been a gigantic leap in terms of progress, compared to [last
month's](/blog/2020/10/01/2020september.html) 62%, this is almost a 20% increase in code coverage.
If everything comes along nicely, Oddysee might even be completed before the year ends, though I'd
like to ask you to not take this as fact.

On to who did what:

[Paul] worked on the engine's resource manager, a bunch of objects like chimelocks, security orbs,
leaves, UXBs meatbags and switches that you activate by stepping on them. He implemented Slogs
chasing Abe and also their idle functions.

He also did a lot of behind the scenes stuff like functions related to cameras being swapped,
animation related functions, code handling screens and a lot of work on the game's menu, like
displaying loading screens, the options screen, loading saves and gamespeak. He also fixed the game
trying to load a non-existent file, Sligs making weird animations when they sleep and water drops
disappearing in thin air before they hit the ground.

[D3nwah] fixed bugs, including bugs in the Slog AI, gibbed body parts flickering in and out of
existence, a crash, a well not working well, a save file that refused to load, Slig guns not
ejecting shells upon shooting, the game not restarting in a specific case when a possessed Slig
shoots Abe, no sounds upon death by meatsaw, screen transitions not working properly and birds not
showing up where they're supposed to.

Next to all this, he worked on many functions related to Abe, including hoisting up ledges, talking
while being crouched, jumping into portals, jumping while running, jumping into wells, reading story
stones, chanting and entering doors. Similarly, he also implemented a lot of Slig behavior like
Sligs targeting who to beat next, the mechanisms to controls possessed Sligs, sleeping, panicking
from hearing Abe chant, being alerted, turning and finally their idle state. He also implemented
some stuff regarding saving and loading games and a Scrab function.


[Mouzedrift] fixed a bunch of bugs including the Elum sometimes not respecting the authority of
walls, wrong sound effects being played, the game crashing if you had more than nine items in your
pockets, Abe being able to run in a space that should only allow rolling, smoke from Sligs shooting
walls never dissappearing and some Scrabs that straight up didn't do anything. He also worked on
grenades and slignshot-wielding Mudokons, named sounds and implemented security doors.

[UltraStars3000] named a ton of sound effects, including Abe mounting on Elum, the bird portal's
birds' sounds, dropped items making noises, Flintlocks making noises, etc.

[THEONLYDarkShadow] continued to name fields, this time in the code related to among other things
Mudokons hung up in the Tear-X-Tractor machines, UXBs, trapdoors, wells, water and the wheels.

Two more people joined the team this month, Pryon and GproKaru, their contributions were the
following:

[Pryon] fixed five bugs related to menus, including the load menu acting up if there aren't any
saves, deleting saves causing a visual bug where they appear duplicated, some hotkeys not showing up
if there aren't any saves, keys being able to be assigned to multiple actions and finally a bug
where if you set actions to keys that are used in menus, those keys became unusable.

[GproKaru] named a gargantuan amount of animations. To give you an idea: If you can't figure out
from the code what the animation does, you need to set a specific code, recompile the game, check
what it does, then edit a line in a file. Now even if you do this as fast as possible, it still
takes a while and he did this process several hundred times.

All in all, we are steadily approaching the end of the reversing process and the beginning of
actually merging the two engines which will allow a bunch of really nice things to happen. As
always, if you would like to help, have something to say or would just simply like to observe the
work, feel free to join our [Discord]. If you want to support the project financially, you can do
so on our [Patreon] or on [PayPal].

Thanks for reading and see you next month!

[Paul]: https://github.com/AliveTeam/alive_reversing/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed+created%3A2020-10-01..2020-11-01+author%3Apaulsapps
[D3nwah]: https://github.com/AliveTeam/alive_reversing/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed+created%3A2020-10-01..2020-11-01+author%3Ad3nwah
[Mouzedrift]: https://github.com/AliveTeam/alive_reversing/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed+created%3A2020-10-01..2020-11-01+author%3Amouzedrift
[UltraStars3000]: https://github.com/AliveTeam/alive_reversing/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed+created%3A2020-10-01..2020-11-01+author%3AUltraStars3000
[THEONLYDarkShadow]: https://github.com/AliveTeam/alive_reversing/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed+created%3A2020-10-01..2020-11-01+author%3ATHEONLYDarkShadow
[Pryon]: https://github.com/AliveTeam/alive_reversing/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed+created%3A2020-10-01..2020-11-01+author%3Apryon
[GproKaru]: https://github.com/AliveTeam/alive_reversing/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed+created%3A2020-10-01..2020-11-01+author%3AGproKaru

[Discord]: https://discord.gg/khs6KKS
[Patreon]: https://www.patreon.com/alive
[PayPal]: https://paypal.me/paulsapps
