---
title: "May, 2020"
poster: "Paul"
---

Nemin has created a website for the project here:  https://aliveteam.github.io/ 

Abe's Oddysee progress continues. It will likely be months before AO standalone gets to anywhere near booting. The main focus will be the game objects as the "core" engine code is mostly the same between AO and AE. Thus near the end AO can be forced to call the AE core functions to see what sticks.

The goal for this month is to implement from the entry point of AO to the Map class creating an instance of a completed object via the PathData Factory. I may also attempt to update the IDA scripts to report actual function count/percentage progress.

We also gained a few more supporters this month. I'll likely also be doing more dev streams   during this lockdown 'o doom. Stay safe out there.
May 3, 2020 at 4:00 PM
March-April 2020 update, we're going on an Oddysee

Sound rewrite progress is stalled at this point and probably will be very slowly chipped away at.

I would say some IRL issues have messed things up slightly, but then again I'm sure the current situation has done that to most people ;).

The main big news is that reversing of Abe's Oddysee has started. This was not something I planned to do originally because its another massive piece of work. But the initial pass of grouping/naming functions is nearing completion.

I've been live streaming quite a bit of this either in the Discord server, youtube or twitch. I've jumped around services quite a bit as I am new to streaming.

You can see a couple here:  https://www.twitch.tv/paulsapps/videos  for the next 30 days before twitch deletes them. Although its probably not very interesting to watch when it isn't live due to lack of interaction.

Check the road map image created by Dark and Mouzedrift - this gives a good overview of the current state of play (disclaimer: this image is WIP and the roadmap is probably also subject to change :)).
